## Welcome !
<br>
<i> MethaneTarget</i> is an app that let you visualize [Prudhomme et al. (2021)](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jenvman.2021.113058) results and data.

From the left navigation panel you'll be able to access the data used in this study, and results presented in the paper.

It has been made with [shiny](https://shiny.rstudio.com/) and you may find the code on [github](https://github.com/prudhomme-nuig/MethaneTarget).

<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>
<br>
Methane is a short-lived greenhouse gas (GHG) that is modelled distinctly from long-lived GHGs such as carbon dioxide and nitrous oxide to establish global emission budgets for climate stabilization. The Paris Agreement requires a 24-47% reduction in global biogenic methane emissions by 2050. Separate treatment of biogenic methane in national climate policies will necessitate consideration of how global emission budgets compatible with climate stabilisation can be downscaled to national targets. This study examines the effects of four methods to determine national quotas, and two methods of GHG aggregation (GWP100 and GWP*), on national GHG balances and production of CH4-intensive food (milk, meat, eggs and rice) in 2050 across four countries with contrasting agriculture, forestry and other land use (AFOLU) sectors and socio-economic contexts (Brazil, France, India and Ireland). It is assumed that methane quotas are always filled by food production where sufficient land is available. Global methane budgets for 1.5oC scenarios are downscaled to national quotas based on: grand-parenting (equal percentage reductions across countries); equity (equal per capita emissions); ability (emission reductions proportionate to GDP); animal protein security (emissions proportionate to animal protein production in 2010). The choice of allocation method changes national methane quotas by a factor of between 1.7 (India) and 6.7 (Ireland). Despite projected reductions in emission-intensities, livestock production would need to decrease across all countries except India to comply with quotas under all but the most optimistic sustainable intensification scenarios. The extent of potential afforestation on land spared from livestock production is decisive in achieving climate neutrality. Brazil and Ireland could maintain some degree of milk and beef export whilst achieving territorial climate neutrality, but scenarios that comply with climate neutrality in India produce only circa 30% of national calorie and protein requirements via rice and livestock. The downscaling of global CH4 budgets into national policy targets in an equitable and internationally acceptable manner will require simultaneous consideration of the interconnected priorities of food security and land banks available for carbon offsetting.
</p>
